The robot was modelled based on the generic Green Sea Turtle [3]. In essence, it is a 0.9m x 0.5m x 0.36m rectangular box, with a set of cylindrical front arms. The arms are either modelled as having a middle joint or not, with a total length being 1.2 meters.
 The brain of the robot was based on a simple Multi-Layer-Perceptron (MLP). Two options were tested, one with a single hidden layer, and one with two hidden layers of the same size. In both cases, that was the size of the observation size and the output the action space.
The environment was made starting with a flat plane with almost no friction and relatively hard contact forces. Then a set of pillars is placed in a long line, where the distance between the left and right was kept at 3.14 meters, while the distance to the next set was either 5 meters or varied.
A second hidden layer was also investigated, which had the same size as the first one.

In addition to these goals, the difference in learning speed and accuracy was measured between the CMA-ES and the more standard approach of Proximal policy optimization (PPO) [2]. The morphology of the robot was also compared between the arms being a rigid or jointed structure.

. In terms of morphology, the version with one joint was able to learn faster, but was less flexible than the two-joint version. Finally, the CMAES method was able to learn faster than the PPO.

As mentioned in the introduction, there were more in-depth questions asked. Firstly, on the topic of comparing the learning outcomes between a CMAES and PPO approaches; the robot seemed to learn much faster and with better results when using the CMAES method. Given an hour-worth of compute, the reward for the CMAES was XX, while XX for PPO. Meanwhile, the effect of keeping the arms as one rigid body did not correlate with noticeably different results. If anything, it was easier for the robot move the arms away from the pillars, before grabbing onto them and pushing away.
In conclusion, the turtle-like robot was capable of traversing the environment using the pillars to push itself away. The movements were rather close to what was hypothesized at the start. Moreover, while adding sensors did not improve the performance if the pillars were evenly spaced, it had a great effect if they were random.
The experiment could be improved in a few ways. Certainly the topic of reward functions and termination criteria is one of endless discussions. Moreover, the definition of the ice-surface was tricky to achieve and would sometimes result in odd behavior.
Moving forward, an expansion of the experiment could look into changing the goal of the simulation. Rather than only moving straight ahead, the robot could be trained to navigate a grid of pillars, moving from one portion of it to a set goal portion.
